---
layout: post
title: Things that are a thing here
---

They say that major lifestyle changes—even positive ones, like starting a new
job or moving—are one of the biggest stressors out there. By that measure, it’s
been a wild week: I’ve moved in with my host family in Naju, set up a Korean
bank account and phone number in my name, and started teaching English at two
middle schools. Unfamiliar digs, unfamiliar language, unfamiliar students and
coworkers. But on all sides, I’ve been fortunate to find myself surrounded by
supportive, understanding, and hardworking people.

Skip these two paragraphs if I already told you about my weekly schedule. I
spend Monday through Thursday at an all-boys’ middle school in Naju’s old town.
At about forty students in each grade (divided into two classes), it’s smaller
than average, but our students more than make up for it with their rambunctious
energy. Fridays, I’m out in the countryside in an actually tiny one-building
school that has only twenty-five or so students (it’s the satellite of a school
in a neighboring city), all very proper and devoted to their grade-level
classmates. The second school is in a gorgeous setting: epic mountains pouring
down fog from all sides.

At my main school, each homeroom gets English class two or three times a week; I
teach one class and my supervising coteacher teaches the other. After school, I
teach a smaller group of students an English conversation class (the students
are all required to participate in a club class but they get to choose from
various school subjects). I expected the large classes to be the hard part
because of, you know, crowd control. But the club classes have proven more
challenging because they expose the students whose English isn’t as strong. Half
of the students are bored because they understand nothing, and the other half is
bored of waiting for the former to catch up. This situation calls for creative
pedagogy. I don’t know what that’ll look like yet, exactly.

Now, I’ll do my utmost not to be that foreigner who windbags about “how the
Koreans do it.” So, with the caveat that I do not intend to define cultural
differences comprehensively, let me share two things have stood out to me this
week: First, it’s really striking how much authority teachers have here. Despite
my youth and inexperience, my fellow teachers place a lot of faith (certainly
undue) in my ability to plan solid classes. They’ve given me a textbook to
follow, along with ample supplies and auxiliary materials, but nobody has nagged
me for any bureaucratic nonsense like a tabular correlation of my lesson plans
with those of my supervisor. The team trusts that I’ll do the work well, and I
do my best to meet their expectations.

Observation number two: There’s a stereotype that Korean schools teach
everything by rote, but to me, this appears to be more of a generational
difference than a cultural one. If anything, it’s kids in the US who suffer
truly tedious classes, structured the same way every day (“I will be able
to … ”), because American teachers’ livelihood depends so desperately on their
students’ standardized test scores. While standardized tests are also a big deal
in Korea, teachers themselves seem to assign (and are permitted to assign)
students’ overall learning and well-being more importance. Additionally, my
students in Korea take a much wider variety of subjects than their American
counterparts. Art, music, literature, and “morality” class[^morality] matter
just as much as the STEM subjects, whereas the schools I’ve worked at in the
States seemed to treat anything that isn’t quantitative as an ancillary. (But
then, I did grow up in the shadow of Microsoft, Boeing, and Amazon.)

In short, I really love my job. Call this the honeymoon phase, but I want to
gush about one more thing while I’m riding high: On my first day, I received
from the vice principal a tabbed, leather-bound notebook labeled “Teacher’s
Diary.” I chuckled at the odd English, thinking it was just a regular planner,
but it isn’t. Many of the teachers at our school actually keep a journal, in
prose, reflecting on their daily lessons and pondering ways to improve their
pedagogy. I’ve started doing the same. And I can already feel it making me more
present in the classroom, more aware of how my students are faring. I mean, why
wasn’t this a thing in my high school?

[^morality]: I <em>really</em> want to observe this one. I was leafing through the
    morality textbook and it consists mostly of short parables and comic strips,
    which students read and then respond to with brief journal entries. When I
    remarked to another teacher that there are no such classes in America, she
    asked if we just learned morality during philosophy class. I told her we
    don’t normally have philosophy classes in grade school either. She turned
    back to her computer, looking perplexed.
