---
layout: post
title: The benefits of a nonnative teacher
---

In addition to the myth that it’s impossible for adults to “really” learn a
foreign language, a widely held misconception about language learning is the
notion that beginners must learn from native speakers. Many are willing to allow
that a nonnative English speaker could make *as good* a teacher as a native
speaker, but fewer recognize the pedagogical *advantages* offered by someone who
has learned the target language as an adult and can understand what it looks
like from the student’s perspective.

In the ELL classroom, we often encounter questions like: Why is it correct to
say *I am going to school* but wrong to say *I am going to home?* A native
speaker has to think about this: Is there a reason we drop the *to* before
*home,* maybe something to do with the fact that you can attend, in theory,
multiple schools but can have only one true home? Or is it because it just
“sounds better”? Or maybe it’s just a random exception, but then, which one is
the exception and which one is the rule?

Someone who learned English as an adult can tell you immediately that *I am
going home* is a random exception, and that *to* is the rule when you are going
to a specific, named place. The only reason I, a native English speaker, know
this is that a similar exception exists in German: *Ich bin zu Hause.* When I
asked my German teacher (a nonnative English speaker) about that sentence, she
asked, rhetorically, “Why is it correct to say *I am going to school* but wrong
to say *I am going to home*?”—having learned this very thing in school.

With some effort, you can generate sentence pairs that demonstrate the opposite
case, where a native speaker feels inclined to call the difference a random
exception when in fact there’s a grammatical rule in play. Here’s a test
question that I’ve encountered in various forms:

> I think dogs are awesome. I think cats are OK. Circle all correct sentences:
>
> <ol type="A">
>   <li>I like dogs more than cats.</li>
>   <li>I like dogs better than cats.</li>
>   <li>I like more dogs than cats.</li>
>   <li>I like cats less than dogs.</li>
>   <li>I like cats fewer than dogs.</li>
> </ol>

The answer is choices B and D. Most native speakers see nothing wrong with A,
because it’s something that we actually do say, but according to a strict
interpretation of the rules of English grammar, A is wrong for the same reason
that C and E are wrong: *more* is for comparing quantities of things, but *like*
expresses a binary preference. By an even stricter interpretation of the rules,
you can argue that choice D should have *worse* instead of *less,* but the
prescriptivists who write Korean standardized tests of English grammar have
moved past that archaism even as they’ve resisted allowing choice A.

Native English speakers who teach in Korea are often given test questions like
these, along with the answer key, and asked to explain the correct choice.
Because the answer key disagrees with our intuition, we tend to grasp for an
explanation and fail. On the other hand, a Korean teacher can reference the
textbook page that discusses *more than* and *better than* and be done with it.

You might argue that memorizing these kinds of formalisms falls short of actual
language acquisition, and you would be correct—language learners need *also* to
engage with authentic texts and audio, experiment with the target language in
roleplay scenarios, and practice speaking freely without worrying about errors.
But teaching the *more than/better than* distinction, *even if* the student will
eventually discard that rule as they encounter English in the wild, is useful
because it primes the student’s awareness of the different kinds of comparisons
available in the language.

Consider: You can allow choice A in the above question, but then students will
ask why its parallel, choice E, is wrong, and you’ll teach them the *fewer
than/less than* distinction, but then you’ll have to explain why there isn’t a
*more than/better than* distinction as well. Yuck! It’s better (more?) to avail
beginners of a consistent set of principles that mostly work, while maintaining
a mental inventory of exceptions, and exceptions to the exceptions, in case a
smart kid asks a good question.

Most native teachers long to do away with multiple-choice questions like the
above. At best, they make for interesting illustrations of how English grammar
is a moving target and there’s no universal set of rules obeyed by all English
speakers everywhere forever. At worst, they make for frustrating illustrations
of how English grammar is a moving target and there’s no universal set of rules
obeyed by all English speakers everywhere forever. A nonnative speaker, who can
detach herself from personal feelings about what constitutes “natural” English,
can distinguish between language usage and test-taking strategy. A savvy
test-taker, confronted with the above question, doesn’t have to know whether *I
like dogs more than cats* is admissible in Korean Standard English; she merely
recognizes that this question is “about” the *more than/better than* distinction
and eliminates choice A because standardized examinations test rules, not
exceptions.

Now, native speakers can learn to speak abstractly about grammar like nonnative
speakers do, but it’s an acquired skill, just like algebra. While it’s
theoretically possible for a native speaker to deduce the rules of his
language’s grammar from first principles, a speaker who learned the language as
an adult learned those rules at the same time, whereas native teachers like me
have to scramble through Google to find answers or make up rules that seem right
at first but collapse upon inspection.

I have learned a great deal of Korean from native speakers, but my foundation in
the Korean language was established in a class at the UW taught by an American.
After that, I had Korean professors and TAs who had invested considerable time
in learning to speak *about* Korean, and they understood the utility of abstract
grammar because they had relied on it themselves in learning English. To the
extent that I’m good at Korean now, I attribute my success more to the many
opportunities I’ve had to carefully examine Korean grammar and etymology than to
my friendships with native speakers. That part’s just fun.
