---
title: 'Gwangju again: CLS Media Literacy and Democracy seminar'
layout: post
---

I had the honor this week of participating in the first ever [Critical Language
Scholarship Alumni Seminar](
    https://clscholarship.org/news/2024/cls-international-alumni-seminars ) at
Chonnam National University in Gwangju, South Korea. The seminar focused on
**media literacy and democracy,** and I can’t think of a better time or place to
study the topic.

Koreans take their democracy very seriously, as evidenced by the high degree of
civic participation (there is virtually *always* a protest going on in front of
all the major government buildings in Seoul) and high voter turnout (77% in the
2022 presidential election). One reason is that Korea didn’t adopt a democratic
constitution until 1987, which puts Korea’s long struggle against authoritarian
rule well within living memory. The memory is especially fresh in Gwangju, the
site of the 5/18 (1980) independence movement, in which hundreds of activists
(many of them CNU students) lost their lives to state violence.

As we learned, throughout the 1980s, citizen journalists played a pivotal role
in resisting media censorship and spreading the true narrative of 5/18 via
informal publications; their efforts were arguably a key factor in the eventual
success of the 1987 democracy movement. I was encouraged to hear from a panel of
CNU student journalists about their efforts to document important issues in the
community and carry forward CNU’s tradition of advocacy through journalism.

I also reflected on the important role that art plays in shaping and sustaining
the collective narratives that energize a democratic society. Today is another
special moment in Gwangju’s history as the city celebrates Han Kang’s receipt of
the Nobel Prize in Literature. Han Kang was born in Gwangju, and one of her
novels, *Human Acts* (소년이 온다), memorializes the 5/18 independence movement.
I have to add this book to the stack, as I have only read *The Vegetarian*
(채식주의자), and only in translation. We also saw, at the [Gwangju Museum of
Art]( https://artmuse.gwangju.go.kr/ ), a pair of paintings by a student
activist who is now a senior citizen who began to paint in his retirement so
that he could preserve his memory of the movement. (Unfortunately, I can’t find
this artist’s name on the website.) Such images create a relationship between
the viewer and the events of 5/18 that rings “true” in a way that journalistic
accounts cannot.

As for me, participating in this seminar meant that I got to return to the exact
institution where I did [CLS in 2016]( {% post_url 2016-03-12-cls-korea %} )—my
first visit to Korea—with the added perspective of eight more years of Korean
study and four years of living in the country. It was a delight to show the
other participants around and see Korea again through the eyes of a newcomer.

During CLS in 2016, I was too shy to explore much of the city, but on this visit
the only limiting factor was time. After the seminar, I took a day to walk all
around the Asian Cultural Center, an endless arts complex. My highlight was
*Delivery Dancer’s Arc: Inverse,* a massive video installation from the studio
of science fiction creator Ayoung Kim (김아영). I also enjoyed the ACC’s library,
which has a really slick reference area with art magazines and comfy chairs.
