---
layout: post
title: Is using a thesaurus cheating?
---

I remember taking mild offense when my middle school language arts teacher
introduced our class to the thesaurus. I thought, if let the thesaurus choose my
words for me, then it won’t be *my* writing anymore. By temperament, I seem to
regard technology with suspicion when it threatens to supplant human creativity.

Inevitably, as I progressed through high school and college, I made peace with
the thesaurus, even came to rely on it. A typical use case would be: “I want a
word that means *deferential* but like, in an obnoxious way but, like, it isn’t
the swear word I’m thinking of,” and then I would have Merriam-Webster translate
my profanity into *obsequious.* I trained myself not to regard it as a creative
failure when I accepted this sort of help. After all, it’s not like the
thesaurus *told* me which word to use; it just brought it forth from the tip of
my tongue.

This post was obviously going to be about AI, right? After a few years of
watching the world use and abuse generative AI, I’m beginning to find ways to
accept an LLM’s assistance without feeling like I’ve outsourced my creative
process.

Mostly, I use LLM chat as a better search engine. For example, one of my first
questions was “Is there a NumPy built-in that does this?” with a quick example.
The machine pointed me immediately to `numpy.unravel_index()`, which was
[exactly](https://numpy.org/doc/2.2/reference/generated/numpy.unravel_index.html)
what I needed. It would have taken me much longer to get to the same answer with
Google.

Sometimes, I get into a more involved discussion with the chatbot to improve my
understanding of a technical concept. In lengthy conversations, I try to put a
lot of thought into my questions. I ask the LLM to check my assumptions, issue
corrections, and supply keywords I can look up in an official reference—but
never to generate code, text, or ideas. (Sometimes it does that anyway, which I
find highly annoying.)

“We use tools to embody their virtues,” writes [Fernando
Borretti](https://borretti.me/article/you-can-choose-tools-that-make-you-happy).
I value [authenticity and
craftsmanship]({% post_url 2025-03-12-authenticity-ai-policy %})—my fingerprints
on the finished product—more highly than printing as much code or text as I can
in a fixed amount of time. This value judgment (and it really is just that)
precludes more aggressive uses of LLM tech that, yes, might make me more
productive in the short term. I’ll own that tradeoff: I’m playing the long game
and investing in myself.

When it comes to new technology, we often speak of “early” and “late”
adopters—as though tech literacy means no more than riding the correct part of a
hype wave. My goal is to adopt tools not on the basis of urgent marketing or the
fear of being left behind, but because I can use that tool to make myself
smarter, not dumber.
