---
layout: post
title: Two novels to help understand Korea’s political turmoil
---

I was going to do a “recent reading” roundup, but instead will focus on two
novels that may supply context to the current political situation in South
Korea. On Tuesday night, President Yoon Suk Yeol imposed martial law across the
country for six hours, and lifted the declaration only after the National
Assembly passed a emergency resolution ordering him to back down. As of this
writing, the Assembly has drafted but failed to vote on articles of impeachment.
Instead, Yoon’s party has announced a plan for the president’s
[“orderly resignation,”](https://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20241208050033)
but many details are up in the air.

To understand the images Koreans associate with “martial law,” we must first
discuss Han Kang’s novel *Human Acts* (한강, «소년이 온다»), which is available in an
English translation by Deborah Smith. The novel portrays 1980’s 5/18 movement
and ensuing government crackdown in which student activists in Gwangju were
killed, arrested, and tortured on false charges of communist sympathy. As
Friday’s *New York Times* explains
([paywall](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/06/world/asia/gwangju-massacre-human-acts-han-kang.html)),
Han Kang’s recent Nobel Prize offered a fleeting hope of redress for the victims
of the 1980 incident; that hope has been muddled by the recent turmoil.

I would also like to recommend *28* by my favorite author, Jeong You Jeong
(정유정). This novel imagines the outbreak of an infectious disease, transmitted
between humans and dogs, in a fictional city on the outskirts of Seoul. As soon
as it becomes clear how contagious and lethal the disease is, the Korean
government imposes a military blockade on the city, and anarchy ensues. *28*
makes transparent reference to the crimes of 5/18, but pushes further to ask how
martial law would unfold with modern technology and social media. The book also
raises difficult questions about the transactional relationship between humans
and animals. (And, because it is a Jeong You Jeong novel, there is also a serial
killer running around.) It looks like Chi-Young Kim translated this novel into
English at the Literature Translation Institute of Korea, but all I can find is
an [excerpt](https://www.kln.or.kr/lines/fictionView.do?bbsIdx=358).

As an American, it is not my place to take sides or say what Korea should do
next. These modern novels remind us that in Korea, the concept of authoritarian
rule is not merely a rhetorical foil, but a living memory than animates many
aspects of public policy and civic life. At this moment, martial law is no
longer in effect, President Yoon has apologized, and the democratically elected
National Assembly is in control of the government. That means that Korea’s
future is, for now, safely in the hands of its people.
